thank you very much I think there's
gonna be a very important conference and
I'll get to that toward the middle but I
have a few things to report and want to
thank you all for being here and I have
to say I think with social distancing
that the media has been much nicer I
don't know what it is all these empty
pleas in between chairs we probably
shouldn't have anybody sitting behind
you either you know I should probably go
back but I love it it's so much nicer
but I shouldn't say that because you'll
get me now thank you all for being here
and we continue our relentless effort to
defeat the Chinese virus before I begin
I want to start by announcing that today
we are bringing home another American
citizen it was a big thing very big Omar
hey Cory is on his way back to the
United States after being imprisoned in
Lebanon since September of 2019 he's
battling late-stage cancer mr. Hikari
will now be able to receive the much
needed care and treatment in the United
States we've been working very hard to
get him freed then he's finally able to
have his entire family at his side so
I'm very grateful to the Lebanese
government they worked with us and we
are very proud of his family they stood
by him so strongly and they are thrilled
the United States has no higher priority
than the safety and well-being of our
citizens we've gotten a tremendous
number of hostages out as you know I
think we're 42 and oh and Robert O'Brien
as you know was a chief negotiator for a
large part of it in fact did so well
that now we have him in a different
position so I want to thank and
congratulate Robert and his team and I
want to let everyone know that
recovering Americans held captive and
imprisoned abroad continues to be a top
priority for my
ministration we have one young gentleman
Austin Tice and we're working very hard
with Syria to get him out we hope the
Syrian government will do that counting
on them to do that we've written a
letter just recently but he's been there
for a long time and was captured long
ago Austin Tice his mother's probably
watching and she's a great lady and
we're doing the best we can
so Syria please work with us and we
would appreciate your letting them out
of you think about what we've done we've
gotten rid of the Isis Caliphate Syria
we've done a lot for Syria we have to
see if they're going to do this so it
would be very much appreciated if they
would let Austin Tice out immediately as
you know my administration is working
every day to protect American people and
the American economy from the virus
yesterday I signed into law a critical
support for American workers families
and small businesses big thing we're
providing sick leave and family medical
leave to those affected by the virus and
more health is on the way as we speak
our entire team headed by secretary
minuchin is on the hill we're working
with Democrats and Republicans and
there's a lot of goodwill going on this
was something that happened that was
some people would say an act of God I
don't view it as an act of God I would
view it as as something that just
surprised the whole world and if people
would have known about it it could have
stopped been stopped in place it could
have been stopped right where it came
from China if we would have known about
it if they would have known about it
but now the whole world almost is
inflicted with this horrible
with this horrible virus and it's too
bad it's too bad because we never had an
economy as good as the economy we had
just a few weeks ago but we'll be back
and I actually think we'll be back
stronger than ever before because we
learned a lot during this period of time
I also just invoked the defense
production act to help facilitate
distribution of essential supplies if
necessary we're working with Congress to
provide major additional relief to the
workers small businesses and the hardest
hit industries we want to make sure that
everybody is able to continue on so that
when we recover all of these companies
and these great businesses both very
very small and very very large they're
not going to be broken up and you'd have
to put them back together that would
take a long time because we really
believe in I believe in the V curve I
believe it's going to go when this is
when this is defeated this hidden
scourge is defeated I think we're going
to go up very rapidly our economy and
get back to where it was and beyond
today I want to share with you exciting
progress that the FDA is making with the
private sector as we slash red tape like
nobody has ever done it before somebody
was on yesterday or one of the networks
and said that there's never been a
president even close that's been able to
do what I've done in slashing all of the
red tape and everything to get very
important things to the market medical
so we slash red tape to develop vaccines
and therapies as fast as it can possibly
be done long before anybody else was
even thinking about doing this and as
you know earlier this week we began the
first clinical trial of a vaccine
candidate for the virus and that was
launched in record time it was just a
few weeks and that would have taken
years to do not so long ago
as we race to develop a vaccine we're
also pursuing antiviral therapies and
that's what really we're going to be
talking to you about today that's the
purpose of being up here today and to me
that's even more important
vaccine by its nature you have to have
long tests because you have to make sure
what goes into somebody's body is not
going to do destruction do bad things so
you need long tests and they're doing
great with the vaccines but there's
still a long process but the therapies
are something we can move on much faster
potentially and the treatments that
we'll be able to reduce the severity or
duration of the symptoms make people
better essentially with looking at
things to make people better or at the
very earliest stages they wouldn't even
know they had it and that's where I
believe it's going to work even the best
the FDA Commissioner Steven on who's
with us he's fantastic and he's been
working 24 hours a day he's been he's
worked like probably as hard or harder
than anybody in this in the group other
than maybe Mike Pence or me and what the
FDA is doing is incredible they've done
things in times that were not even
thinkable and I've directed the FDA to
eliminate outdated rules and bureaucracy
so this work can proceed rapidly quickly
and I mean fast and we have to remove
every barrier there were a lot of
barriers that were unnecessary and
they've done that to get the rapid
deployment of safe effective treatments
and we think we have some good answers
we'll find out very very soon clinical
trials are already underway for many new
therapies and we're working on scaling
these to allow many more Americans to
access different drugs that have shown
really good promise we've had some
really good promise we will do so in a
way that lets us continue to collect
good data to know which medicine
are safe and which medicines are working
the best we have a couple that we're
we're in really good shape on and that's
for immediate delivery immediate like as
fast as we can get it
the FDA has also approved compassionate
use for a significant number of patients
you know what that means we're also
reviewing drugs that are approved abroad
or drugs approved here for other uses
and you know one of the things that I'm
most proud of that I got was right to
try that's where somebody who's ill
somebody who's very sick terminally ill
usually in past administrations we
signed us a year and a half ago you
wouldn't be able to even think about
getting any of the drugs that may be
showing great promise now and they've
been trying for many decades to get this
approved then it sounds simple but it's
not because there's liability involved
and lots of other things and I was able
to get it approved working with Congress
right to try this is beyond right to try
what we're talking about today is beyond
right to try the right to try a spin by
the way tremendous success people are
living now that had no chance of living
where we take treatments that would
things that that would have to go
through years of a process and if
somebody was terminally ill and I would
say why wouldn't they be able to try
this they'd go to Asia they go to Europe
they'd go all over the world to try and
find something or some people have they
had no money we'd go home to die they'd
go home to die they had no hope right to
try it's been an incredible success but
this is beyond right to try if treatment
is known to be safe in Europe Japan or
other nations are effective against a
virus we'll use that information to
protect the health and safety of
American people nothing will stand in
our way as we pursue any avenue to find
what best works against this horrible
virus now a drug called chloroquine
and some people would add to it hydroxy
hydroxychloroquine so chloroquine or
hydroxychloroquine now this is a common
malaria drug it's also a drug used for
strong arthritis somebody has pretty
serious arthritis also uses this in a
somewhat different form but it is known
as a malaria drug and it's been around
for a long time and it's very powerful
but the nice part is it's been around
for a long time so we know that if it if
if things don't go as planned it's not
going to kill anybody when you go with a
brand new drug you don't know that
that's gonna happen you have to see and
you have to go long tests but this has
been used in different forms very
powerful drug in different forms and
it's shown very encouraging very very
encouraging early results and we're
going to be able to make that drug
available almost immediately and that's
where the FDA has been so great they
they've gone through the approval
process it's been approved and they did
it they took it down from many many
months to we're gonna be able to make
that drug available by prescription or
States I spoke with Governor Cuomo about
it at great length last night and he
wants to be right on on the he wants to
be first on the line and so I think
that's a tremendous is tremendous
promise based on the results and other
tests this tremendous promise and
normally the FDA would take a long time
to approve something like that and it's
it was approved very very quickly and
it's now approved by prescription
individual states will handle it they
can handle it doctors will handle it
and I think it's gonna be I think it's
gonna be great
then we're quickly studying this drug
and while we're continuing to study it
but the studying is going to be also
done in as it's given out to large
groups of people perhaps in New York and
other places will study it there there
are promising therapies produced by
Gilead and that's where MD sir
voir remem Desa var and that's a drug
used for other purposes that's been out
and said very good results for other
purposes but it seems to have a very
good result having to do with this virus
and that drug also has been approved or
very close to approved in that case by
the FDA and I can't tell you how much we
appreciate what the FDA these people are
incredible Patriots and the job that
Stephen Han is doing dr. Han was one of
the most respected doctors in the
country by the way well we took him I
said you sure you want to do this now we
didn't know that this was going to be in
the playlist what happened here but he
really has stepped up to the plate well
who you are words I check his him but
I'm not supposed to do that getting a
lot of trouble if I did but he's been
fantastic and I thank you doctor he's
gonna speak right after I'm finished so
Regeneron again and some is a company
that's done fantastically well as I
understand with Ebola and some other
things great company and they're looking
at some very promising events also so
you have rimmed Esav voir and you have
cleric wind and i dro hydroxychloroquine
so those are two that are out now
essentially approved for
prescribed use and I think it's gonna be
very exciting I think it could be a
game-changer and maybe not and maybe not
but I think it could be based on what I
see it could be a game-changer very
powerful they're very powerful so I want
every American to know that we're doing
everything we can and these actions are
important next steps I mean for the FDA
to act the way they acted with this kind
of speed is an incredible thing normally
they'd say well we can have it by next
year or we could have it by in two years
from now you understand this is the way
normally it's like years and years and
years they had it immediately based on
the fact that it's been used for other
things totally unrelated things we
believe these therapeutics and others
under evaluation right now will be able
to provide relief to many Americans we
really hope that's going to be this
could be a tremendous breakthrough
tremendous breakthrough and we will work
toward a much needed to vaccine in the
future as I said and what we're doing
with the FDA is so exciting in so many
other fields so many things are
happening it's a very exciting time for
for medicine and we appreciate that the
American public has pulled together
they're really staying home and I think
there's tremendous spirit in this
country right now it's spirit like a lot
of people have not seen people have not
seen anything like it for a long time
and that means democrat-republican
they're pulling together I hope
everything's going good on the hill
maybe I shouldn't say this until I check
out what's going on because you never
know but but I think there's a great
spirit where the Democrats the
Republicans and everybody else they're
getting together and they're trying to
get things done but most importantly the
American public has been incredible we
took the best economy we've ever had and
we said stop you can't work you have to
stay home you know there's never been a
case like this normally you pay a lot of
money to get things going
here's a case we were paying a lot of
money to stop things because we don't
want people to be together so that this
virus doesn't continue onward so there's
never been anything like this in history
there's never been a nobody's ever seen
anything like this but we're doing the
right thing we have to get rid of in our
big war is not a it's not a financial
war it's a war and it's a medical war we
have to win this war it's very important
with that I'd like to just introduce dr.
Stephen Hahn and he again I'd like to
send back with Stephen our thanks to all
of the people working in the FDA who are
fantastic talented people we appreciate
it very much everything you've done
especially the speed that you got these
two elements these two very important
drugs passed thank you very much thank
you mr. president I want to thank you
for your leadership during this corona
virus outbreak and thank you for the
kind words about the FDA staff we have
10,000 scientists doctors and others and
more than that working around the clock
to aid the American people in this fight
against the corona virus and those words
are very much appreciated sir thank you
so before the president nominated me and
I was confirmed as commissioner from
drugs I was a cancer doctor and I've sat
across from countless number of patients
and had to talk to them about their
diagnosis and their treatment and one
thing that was really important is to
provide hope I have great hope for how
we're going to come out of this
situation what's also important is not
to provide false hope but to provide
hope and as a doctor that's the way I
come to this I'm speaking now to the
American people as commissioner of food
and drugs but that part of me has not
left just look at the way the American
people have responded to our calls for
mitigation for social distancing
American people have great resiliency
and I'm so incredibly proud of how the
American people have responded as the
president mentioned he asked us to be
aggressive to break down barriers to
innovation and to accelerate the
development of life-saving treatments
and we're doing that at the FDA
the FDA is committed to continuing to
provide regulatory flexibility and
guidance but let me make one thing clear
FDA's responsibility to the American
people is to ensure that products are
safe and effective and yet we are
continuing to do that our folks and
their tremendous professionals are
working day and night to do this you
just can't even imagine how much they're
working to provide the support for the
American people and I thank them since
early January long before the first
domestic case FDA began working in
collaboration with CDC I also want to
note that we stood up an incident
command group and have been focused on
the corona virus since the very
beginning of this public health
emergency this is in addition and all of
government and all America approach and
I'll describe what I mean by that in
terms of the development of therapeutics
an important part of that work is
expanding the potential therapeutic
options associated with coronavirus and
we've learned from our colleagues across
the globe about this but I I want to
focus on one thing I was a cancer
researcher before all this and one thing
I know about this great country of ours
is that we have unbelievable innovators
we have people who every day it's their
job to develop treatments for all sorts
of diseases we are incredibly blessed as
a country to have this and as is true in
any illness these great American
innovators academia private sector they
have engaged us about the best possible
treatment options we are looking at
everything that's coming across our
desks as possible treatment options for
coronavirus and we're extremely
encouraged by the interest and the
promise that we've seen from these great
American innovators now again we need to
look at it we need the data we need the
information to make the absolute best
decisions for American people but I want
to assure you we have over 17,000 people
at FDA who are doing this every day we
need we need to make sure that these the
see of new treatments will get the right
drug to the right patient at the right
dosage at the right time as an example
we may have the right drug but it may
not be in the appropriate dosage form
right now
and that may do more harm than good
those are the things that that's our job
to look at and that's why it's really
important we have these dedicated
professionals looking at these aspects
of therapeutic development at the same
time we're also working through
different mechanisms to actually get
drugs into the hands of providers and
patients the president mentioned this
but one of the mechanisms called
compassionate use let me just tell you
about this if there's an experimental
drug that's potentially available a
doctor could ask for that drug to be
used in a patient we have criteria for
that and very speedy approval for that
the important thing about compassionate
use and that's what the president meant
this is even beyond right to try is that
we get to collect the information about
that because one of the things there's
no promise the American people is we
will collect the data and then make the
absolute right decisions based upon
those data about the safety and efficacy
of the treatments we are working
expeditiously and we are working to make
sure that these products are as safe and
effective as they possibly can be can be
let me tell you about a few things that
we're currently working on and this is a
plan that was developed with many of the
people at this table are infectious
disease experts on the task force in the
short term we're looking at drugs that
are already approved for other
indications so they're already approved
as the president said for other diseases
as an example many Americans have read
studies and heard media reports about
this drug chloroquine which is an
anti-malarial drug it's already approved
as the president said for the treatment
of malaria as well as in arthritis
condition that's a drug that the
president has directed us to take a
closer look at as to whether an expanded
use approach to that could be done to
actually see if that benefits patients
and again we want to do that in the
setting of a clinical trial a large
pragmatic clinical trial to actually
gather that information and answer the
question that needs to be answered and
asked and answered let me give you
another example
there's a cross-agency effort about
something called convalescent plasma
this is a pretty exciting area and again
this is something that we have given
assistance to other countries with as
this crisis has developed so FDA has
been working for some time
this if you've been exposed to
coronavirus and you're better you don't
have the virus in your blood we could
collect the blood now this is a possible
treatment this is not a proven treatment
just want to emphasize that collect the
blood concentrate that and have the
ability once it's pathogen free that is
virus free be able to give that to other
patients and the immunoglobulins the
immune response could potentially
provide a benefit to patients it's
another thing that we're looking at over
the next couple weeks we'll have more
information that we're really pushing
hard to try to accelerate that that's in
the sort of more medium short term and
that'll be a bridge to other therapies
that will take us three to six months to
develop and this is a continuous process
there is no beginning and end to each of
this this is you know we're pushing this
through the other great thing about the
grade of innovators of America some of
them tell us it's taken us years years
to develop therapies though looking at
pushing that to the months period of
time and we're trying to provide them
the regulatory flexibility but at the
same time the scientific oversight to
make sure that gets done in the best way
possible for the American people the
president mentioned that there is a
vaccine trial currently being performed
it's a phase one trial so it's the
earliest study that gets done we expect
that to take 12 months to get depletion
to actually a time where we could
approve a vaccine but that's these are
all things to bridge to the prevention
part of this with a vaccine it's
exciting work and the president is right
this is record time for the development
of a vaccine and impressive
public-private partnership the FDA's
efforts to facilitate the development of
these products are focused on ensuring
timely access while also meeting the
agency's world respected gold standard
relying on strong data from clinical
trials to determine if an experimental
or an off-the-shelf drug that's used for
something else can safely and
effectively treat patients we want to
assure the American people that FDA is
all hands on deck as the president
mentioned these efforts and continue to
work with interested sponsors to help
expedite the work we remain steadfast in
helping to foster the development of
safe and effective therapies for Co
benign
thank you Thank You mr. president
the White House coronavirus task force
met this morning and on this very first
day of springg we continue to make
steady progress toward president Trump's
objective not only to marshal all the
resources of the federal government
every state government every local
health official but also to harness the
power of the American private sector and
activities over the last day reflect all
of those priorities
yesterday the president spoke with
America's top physicians and nurses and
garnered helpful insights about how we
can best serve those who are serving
Americans that are dealing with the
coronavirus we also had a productive
call with over 5,000 state and local
officials explaining the federal
government's approach and our strong and
seamless partnership with all 50 states
in the territories last night as you
heard the president side the family
first coronavirus response act which
provides free coronavirus testing paid
sick leave family leave for caregivers
and food assistance for the needy among
a broad range of benefits and today as
the president indicated we expect that
the Senate will begin work on an
economic relief package later today the
president and I will meet again in a
teleconference with the nation's
governors we will meet at the National
Response Coordination Center at FEMA an
outline president Trump's decision to
have FEMA take the lead in our national
coronavirus response our nation's
response through FEMA will be locally
executed state managed and federally
supported on testing we want the
American people to know once again the
testing is available in all 50 states as
is becoming increasingly available
literally every hour of the day because
of the public-private partnership that
the president initiated several weeks
ago with major commercial labs I'm
pleased to receive a report today that
tens of thousands of tests are being
performed every day and with the passage
of last night's ledge
relations estate and private labs are
now required by law to report all
coronavirus testing directly to the CDC
which will give the American public and
also give our researchers timely and
important information it's important for
every American to remember that if you
don't have symptoms you don't need to
get a test we want to make sure the
testing is available for people that are
experiencing symptoms or have a genuine
concern about having been exposed to
someone with the coronavirus dr. Burks
will address county level data as well
as the progress we've made on testing
and Americans can expect to see how an
increased number of cases as our new
testing system comes online should not
be a cause of concern she'll explain the
importance of taking into account our
new testing system as new data arrives
over the next several days on supplies a
priority the president has given to our
task force we continue to work with
healthcare providers businesses and
state leadership to identify available
supplies not merely in the federal
stockpile but much more importantly
available across the private sector
we're encouraged to see companies like
Honeywell and 3m that I visited a few
short weeks ago take advantage of the
changes in the law last night that allow
the sale of industrial masks directly to
hospitals those companies have now
greatly increased by the tens of
millions their production of so-called
n95 masks that will give our health care
workers the protection that they need to
minister to those that are dealing with
the symptoms or the disease of
coronavirus I'm following the signing of
last night's bill all of those masks now
have liability protection and the
companies can sale industrial masks to
hospitals it is encouraging as we called
out yesterday to see construction
companies all across America that are as
we speak
checking their supplies and donating
those industrial masks to their local
hospitals and I know I speak on behalf
of the president we spent a lot of time
as a builder when we thank builders
across America for partnering with our
local health care officials
on the subject of ventilators we're
working with healthcare providers around
America and and suppliers and I'm we're
encouraged to learn that we've literally
identified tens of thousands of
ventilators that Bing can be converted
to treat patients and we remain
increasingly confident that we will have
the ventilators that we need as the
coronavirus makes its way across America
and as we said before this we're all in
this together
and before I step away and and give the
podium back to the president and to dr.
Burks I want to call every American's
attention again to the president's 15
days to slow the spread we continue to
hear one case after another one city
after another where people are putting
into practice the principles that the
president outlined this Monday and make
no mistake about it that while for the
American people as a whole the risk of
serious illness remains low these
guidelines should be practiced by every
American in every community not only to
lessen the spread of the corona virus
but to protect the most vulnerable among
us and I think Americans with their with
from their hearts are not only
practicing these principles of social
distancing and avoiding social
gatherings of more than 10 people using
drive-throughs at restaurants to protect
their own health and the health of their
family but they're also recognizing that
no American wants to inadvertently
convey the coronavirus to someone for
whom the consequences could be quite
serious at the president's direction
will continue to marshal all the
resources of government at every level
we'll be reiterating that strong
partnership with America States this
afternoon with America's governors
pulling all of the private sector energy
together the innovation that you just
heard described I know on this first day
of spring that we'll get through this
and we'll get through this together
thank you so I know you're watching the
data carefully you can see the dramatic
increases in the number of new cases
base
on our ability to test additional people
and this will continue over the next two
to three days as we begin to have
backlogs reduced of the testing you all
have heard the antidotes of people
waiting five or six days for their test
results we are moving through all of
that as well as testing individuals I
really want to applaud the frontline
healthcare workers the nurses and the
doctors and the testers that have really
prioritized and the American people who
have a prioritized those with symptoms
the number of tests positives is
increasing that is a dramatically
important signature that everybody is
doing their job those with mild symptoms
are staying home self isolating those
with serious symptoms are coming forward
to getting testing our tests positive
rates are now into the 10 to 11 percent
range that still means that 90 percent
of the illness is out there even the
severe ones are not covet 19 I know many
of you are looking at the state-level
data still over 50% of the cases come
from three states this is why we
continue to prioritize testing in those
states in addition 50 percent of the
cases come from 10 counties we're a very
large country with very many counties
and I just want to applaud the local and
state governments that are implementing
their emergency operation centers and
plans to ensure I want to also really
thank the healthcare workers that have
been asked to reduce all elective
surgeries medical and dental visits this
will dramatically increase the number of
ventilators that are available in
hospitals but also in ambulatory
surgical centers that can be converted
and utilized and also the to the
construction industry we are deeply
grateful the number as vice president
said the number of individuals have come
forward with their construction mask
their booties their Tyvek suits and
their masks to contribute them to the
healthcare sector the President's
request to make this available in that
legislation changes the ability and
increases our availability immediately
by than 75 to 90
because the amount of construction use
of those elements thank you thank you
Thank You mr. president mr. vice
president huh today you heard a
wonderful announcement from the FDA and
I just want to give a shout out to Steve
dr. Hahn and the folks at the FTA were
about what several hundred of my
commissioned Corps officers work you're
right mr. president
they are tireless they're doing things
that have never been done before to
bring the most most prudent advances to
the American people but I want to talk
about something different briefly we
know many of you are home practicing the
president's guidelines for social
distancing but one thing we should all
consider especially our Millennials in
Gen Z is donating blood as an
anesthesiologist who still practices at
Walter Reed taking care of our wounded
warriors and our soldiers I know
donated blood is an essential part of
caring for patients and one donation can
save up to three lives blood centers are
open now and in need of your donation I
want Americans to know that blood
donation is safe and blood centers are
taking extra precautions at this time
based on new CDC recommendations
including spacing beds six feet apart
disinfecting surfaces between patient's
temperature checking staff and
encouraging donors to make appointments
ahead of time so we can space them out
social distancing does not have to mean
social disengagement so give blood today
you'll feel good about it and you'll be
helping your country and your community
during this crisis and you might even
save a life
yeah switching to the the Epis to boost
the economy with this convention or
Congress will you guarantee that the
money the billions the tens of billions
of dollars hundreds of billions of
dollars even that's going to go but to
these industries will not go to
executive bonuses or to more stock
buybacks well we don't want that in fact
some companies as you know did stock
buybacks and I was never happy with that
it's very hard to tell them not to but I
would tell them not to I would say I
don't like it for that reason some did
and it turned out that they could have
waited a long time it would have been
much better off if they did the
condition of the bill you could say that
none of this morning can go what I'm
making
I mean you know take so many many people
in this case to tango but as far as I'm
concerned that conditions like that
would be okay with me you and a question
for dr. klahn you enabled I guess is
probably the best way to put it the
defense production act yesterday
beginning pull the trigger on it no
because we hope we're not going to need
that from the Democratic leadership to
pull the trigger on wait what's the
rationale for not to first of all
governors are supposed to be doing a lot
of this work and they are doing a lot of
this work federal government's not
supposed to be out there buying vast
amounts of items and then shipping you
know we're not a shipping clerk the
governors are supposed to be as with
testing the governor's oppose are
supposed to be doing it will help out
and will help out wherever we can and we
can buy in volume and in some cases
great volume with the masks as an
example which were really a problem we
have helped out and they're right now
millions of masks being made but this is
really for the local governments
governors and people within the state
depending on the way they divided it up
and they'll do that and they're doing a
very good job of it where you have a
problem with ventilators we're working
very hard trying to find nobody in their
wildest dreams would have ever thought
that we need tens of thousands of
ventilators this is something that's
very unique to this to what happened
additions would you put the defense
production Act into action well if we
were desperately in need of something
and we frankly will know about that very
shortly we want to be ahead of we don't
want to do it as it happens but before
it happens we're going to know a lot
over the next two or three days we'll
know a lot any idea when REM disappear
will be available to the market and are
there any drugs in the pipeline that you
believe could qualify for a treatment I
indeed so with respect to the first
question I'm on prohibited by law to
disclose confidential commercial
information what I can tell you is we're
working very closely with the company on
this and we'll have additional
information they will relatively soon
yes there are drugs in the pipeline
we're looking at everyone everyone on
this dais gets calls every day as to all
of our people at the FDA about potential
therapeutic options we are looking at
every single one of them no I'm not
we're trying to find that out this has
been going on for years many years
they've been trying to find Austin Tice
he was in Syria as you know his mother
is an incredible woman and I'm doing it
for him but I'm doing it for his mother
his mother's an incredible woman who's
desperate to find her son and I'm not
confirming a lot but if he is alive if
we would like very much to get him back
quickly okay and on coronavirus speaking
of shortages of supplies the CDC has put
out guidelines for hospitals that are
dealing with a shortage of mass to use
them beyond their shelf life we use them
instead of getting new ones and in a
worst-case scenario use a bandana
instead of
masks how is that acceptable at all well
I haven't seen that but I will let Mike
answer that question I'm happy to mr.
president I just I can't emphasize
enough the incredible progress that was
made with the passage of the legislation
last night and President had me go to
Minnesota and meet with 3m that
manufactures these in 95 mass a few
weeks ago and we learned of their
production at that facility of 35
million mass a month less than five
million of those were qualified to be
sold to hospitals so President worked
with Republican and Democrat leadership
we've extended the liability protection
so now that all the industrial masks
that are manufactured as n95 s are now
available to hospitals and we're seeing
a dramatic increase in production
Honeywell alone is repurposing a factory
that was destined for Mexico to produce
another 120 million mass per year 3m is
increasing output to 420 million masks
per year
we really we put a priority at the
president's direction on making sure
those that are providing health care
services to America have the protection
to keep themselves and their families
safe and with the legislation last night
with the incredible response among these
great private-sector companies and as we
mentioned repeatedly with construction
companies around America heating the
president's call to donate their
industrial mass to hospitals is
happening all over America we know we'll
meet that need
well as I mentioned 3m is increasing
their output 420 million a year at
production and January they make 35
million per month at that facility and
we're we're prioritizing the
distribution of those but the other
thing and we'll emphasize this with
governor's this afternoon is we're
working with governor's to make sure
that the health care providers the
hospitals and the clinics in their state
are placing orders now that this
tremendous increase in supply
particularly with industrial mass is now
available we're going to make sure they
understand that the supply has greatly
expanded
bipartisan legislation and the
accomplishment the president and the
response by these companies is making
more mass available and we're going to
make sure health care providers are
purchasing those and the federal
government will also make sure that our
stockpile is properly reflects those
increases as well they're available now
the 3m facility that I was at told me in
that in January they went to full
production on 35 million masks the
legislative change means that all 35
million of those that started to be
produced at full capacity in January can
now be sold to hospitals that's the
distinction here it's a very important
change and it's part of the way the
president has been engaging the private
sector pushing the kind of regulatory
reform and the kind of liability reform
that has greatly expanded of the
availability of mass so they're in the
marketplace now we're gonna make it
clear to governor's as we made it clear
to healthcare providers in conference
calls yesterday that those resources are
now there
we've vastly increased the supply
medical mass and we're continue to put a
priority on making sure that we're
calling on industry at every level
calling on major suppliers that the
president met with this week to make
sure that those personal protective
equipment are there to do with the
liability to the company it had a big
problem with liability and much of it
had to do with the liability to the
company
[Applause]
thank you too for you in one part dr.
Han the American Hospital Association
just told NBC News that they need a
hundred billion dollars in order to
address shortages in equipment and other
infrastructure there you just signed two
legislative packages they say it didn't
directly give money to address this
issue why not and will you commit to me
looking at that issue directly with them
and that's a separate issue but we're
looking at that issue very directly
we're looking at it very well we're
going to do our best on it but we're
working with Democrats and Republicans
or that we're looking at that very
specifically you bottom-line people when
can Americans expect their lives to go
back to normal will that not happen
until there's a vaccine
I hope person will see this is uncharted
territory as you know we think we have
ideas it doesn't help to say what the
ideas I would hope very soon we're we've
pulled together as a nation people are
for the most part doing what they're
supposed to be doing the social
distancing is very interesting a whole
new term that's become a hot it's become
somewhat of a hot term but people are
listening and they're and they're really
doing a great job this country is an
amazing country I think you're up to 141
different countries right now so it's
very uncharted territory it could have
could have been stopped could have been
stopped pretty easily if we had known if
everybody had known about it a number of
months before people started reading
about it excuse me excuse me before we
started reading about we could have it
could have been stopped in its tracks
unfortunately they didn't decide to make
it public but the whole world is
suffering because of it
did have a sense that this was a
pandemic it was coming so why was the
United States not prepared with more
testing we were very prepared the only
thing we weren't prepared for was the
the media the media has not treated it
fairly I'll tell you how prepared I was
I called for a band from people coming
in from China long before anybody
thought it was in fact it was your
network I believe they called me a
racist because I did that it was many of
the people in the room they called me
racist and other words because I did
that because I went so early so when you
say we weren't prepared had I left these
tens of thousands of people come in from
China a day we would have had something
right now that would have been you
wouldn't have even recognized it
compared to where we are how many people
have passed away how many people have
died as of this moment you could
multiply that by a factor of many many
many so when you say that I wasn't
prepared I was the first one to do the
band now other countries are following
what I did but the media doesn't
acknowledge that they know it's true
they know it's true but they don't want
to write about it the states are
supposed to get it but we're helping
mistakes look for years they bought them
and now all of a sudden they're coming
to the federal government we're working
with the states we're working with the
governors we're working with everybody
the relationships are great one of the
things that happened this morning I
spoke with Micky Arison of Carnival
Cruise Lines and he's going to make
ships available so in addition to the
big medical ships that you have coming
if we should need ships with lots of
rooms
they'll be docked at New York and Los
Angeles and San Francisco different
places so I want to thank Mickey Aires
and that's Carnival Cruise Lines
about invoking production I've done it
yeah if we find that we need something
that we will do that and you don't know
what we've done you don't know whether
or not we've ordered you don't know if
we've invoked it you don't know what's
been ordered what's not going on I can
only tell you I can only tell you that
as an example masks nobody ever heard of
the number of mass that's been ordered
they're being made now and many are
available now but people I think in the
media probably don't know that can you
explain the gap and for the American
people and what you're saying here today
about there being tens of thousands of
tests available about how they're being
a huge amount of masks available and
what we're sitting on the ground which
is really the opposite of that people
are people are saying that they can't
get tested even when they have symptoms
people are saying that they doctors are
telling us they don't have access to
vital equipment can you explain that
that gap well I can't I cannot explain a
gap I'm hearing very good things on the
ground and we're dealing with love there
to ramp up they had an obsolete system
and they had a system simultaneously
that was not meant for this it wasn't
meant for this nobody knew they'd be a
pandemic or an epidemic of this
proportion nobody's ever seen anything
like this before I can tell you that
what we're doing is we're working with
local governments with states governors
even mayors on getting them to be able
to get what they need and the system is
starting to work out very well but we
had a break his system like breaking an
egg because the system we had was
obsolete and didn't work and that was a
system we inherited and now we have
something that's really been very good
and certainly going to be great for the
future too yeah
your supporters about a port bridge bill
in particular senator Mike Braun said
that this could harken back to 2008
where we're picking winners and losers
and his colleagues may not be
comfortable with that what do you say
well we don't want to pick winners and
losers we want everybody to benefit we
want I think more than anything else the
workers to benefit and sometimes for the
worker to benefit you have to go through
the company because they have thousands
of workers and if the company goes out
of business no fault of their own
those workers aren't going to be able to
receive a check so where look our
ultimate goal or the people our ultimate
goal of the great people of this country
and we will have things worked out I
think that are going to be very well
it's a very complex formula you
understand that very complex but it's
working out I think it's going to be
very well I think we're gonna have
pretty uniform support for it please put
on an advisory telling Americans not to
travel overseas at all are you putting
in an overseas travel we're speaking
with the State Department later I can't
say right now because I haven't had the
meeting yet aspect on about today's
announcement affairs doctrine thank you
so much I wanted to ask out rent REM
severe if I pronounced that correctly
can you say it currently approved for
use on the virus
so Brenda severe and it's a drug made by
Gilead that's been in the press it is
currently in clinical trials here and
around the world we have also made it
available by that approach that I told
you called compassionate use where a
doctor could ask the FDA for that and
the really positive thing about that
that gives it rapidly to a doctor and a
patient but it allows us to collect the
data because what we really need to do
is understand what the data and science
are in order to make the appropriate
decision about safety and effectiveness
so how do you just make sure that it is
safe and I mean is there any concern at
all that it will be safe considering
that it's not going to
the normal process and and could
potentially cause negative effects dr.
pouchy earlier talked about we do not
want to put out anything that could
cause a negative effects is there any
concern about those kind of things we
rip this drugs yeah and thank you for
that question because I just want to be
clear about this REM des aver is going
through the normal process we are using
our internal processes at FDA to set up
with the company the protocols to
actually collect the data and you're
right we need to actually know about the
safety and the effectiveness and that's
done through the clinical trial process
so it's those data that are going to
inform the decisions that are ultimately
made about safety and efficacy this is
an unprecedented situation this is a
really significant time and one thing
that with the president's leadership FDA
has done is said okay how do we approach
these extraordinary times with
extraordinary measures knowing that we
have a sacred trust with the American
people about safety and efficacy but
still at the same time enable these
treatments to get into patients and
that's what we're doing how likely is it
that the 15-day guidance that you would
have extended I can only tell you that
before Tuesday and we'll have to say
well we'll have indications later on dr.
Burks indicated that there are three
states and ten counties if I got that
right
where 50% of the cases are focused
should those areas be doing more
measures such as shelter-in-place
I think they actually are doing a lot I
mean I know New York is working very
diligently been very strong
I assume San Francisco's one of the
areas in Los Angeles and the state of
Washington obviously that's one that has
to be up there they're all working very
hard to to quarantine or words just
about the equivalent of quarantine plan
serves more government workers
moving for the government as well to
start doing more teleworking we are and
we're doing we're using the medical term
of telemedicine and it's been incredibly
busy and really you know what people
don't have to ever eat some people can't
do it anyway they can't get up they
can't see a doctor but we're using this
and it's been telehealth different names
and I will tell you that it's been
really successful it's helped a lot of
people out where they don't have to and
they can't and even from a safety reason
if they are positive they are if they
are feeling poorly they can't do it or
we don't want them transmitting anything
to anybody else on China they reported
for the first time since the outbreak no
new cases over a 24-hour period do you
have any reason to disbelieve them and
second to that the National Security
Council yesterday put out a tweet very
critical of the Chinese government
saying the Chinese Communist Party
suppressed initial reports and the
Chinese virus and punish doctors and
journalists causing Chinese and
international experts to miss critical
opportunities to prevent a global
pandemic could you explain it would have
much better if we had known about this a
number of months earlier
it could have been contained to that one
area in China where it started and
certainly the world is paying a big
price for what they did and the world is
paying a very big price but not for not
letting them come out everybody knows
that we all know that as far as as far
as believing what they're putting out
now I hope it's true who knows but I
hope it's true
you've been talking about China quite a
bit and even talking about the Chinese
virus how if you have heard about this
on day one and had more information
possibly you could have stopped a big
difference are you thinking about any
types of repercussions for China and are
you also rethinking sort of the supply
lines for
our manufacture engine I don't want to
comment on that right now yeah I have a
question for you and also a question for
dr. Burks at you American workers across
the country are losing their jobs an
unprecedented rate and your former
economist said we could see some of the
worst job numbers ever is the government
prepared to see the spike in
unemployment no worst case scenario you
would have terrible job numbers if we
can get this thing wrapped up and
finished earlier things will go very
nicely and one of the things they're
working as you know one of the elements
that is being worked on very much so in
the hill is to keep the jobs going so
that when we do get rid of the virus
we're going to be able to just really I
think go like a rocket I think the
economy is gonna be fantastic
know when he said that he was using that
as the ultimate bad outcome I don't
think anybody believes that's gonna
happen members of Congress are now being
tested positive for echovirus you have
almost two dozen or self-quarantine
do you have any guidance for Congress
should they I know all of them and I
don't know if they're sitting like you
people are sitting you're actually
sitting too close
you should really we should probably get
rid of about another 75 80 percent of
you I'll have just two or three that I
like in this room I think that's a great
way of doing it we just we get a new way
of doing it but you're actually much too
close you know you take you should leave
immediately
but but look look I know all of them
they tested positive hopefully they're
all going to get better and it's one of
those things it's Congress where they
tested positive they're in quarantine
and I know Lindsay and many others are
they they didn't test it but until they
got the result they put themselves in
quarantine a number of people in
Congress right now are in quarantine
they don't know the results when they
get the result they'll leave this stay
there
and get better because people get better
I mean most people are getting better
most by far the people are you get
better doesn't mean it's not a tough one
it is a tough one
but now when they many people in
Congress have felt not perfect or they
met somebody that wasn't perfect it
turned out to be positive and they've
put themselves in quarantine and I think
I think Congress has behaved
unbelievably well in that regard the
economy do you think a trillion-dollar
stimulus is enough well know about that
later Oh we'll see what happens it
depends how long so much depends on
what's going on in this room in terms of
the medical if we can stop it in its
tracks the virus it's plenty if we can't
we'll have to go back and talk do you
support the idea of the government
taking an equity stake in certain
companies people are coming people are
coming in for money
in some cases no fault of their own but
in some cases where they did certain
things over the course of the years
including by buying back stock you know
they bought back stock and they paid a
high price for it as it turned out but
maybe I view that as a little bit
differently than somebody that didn't
and somebody that bill plants all over
the United States of which there were
plenty of them two airlines are Boeing
or what do you think we will be helping
the airline industry we will be helping
the cruise ship industry we probably
will be helping the hotel industry will
probably be where jobs are created you
don't want to lose industries like this
these are incredible industries you
can't lose them so we'll be focused on
many industries and I have to say I
can't say that struggle enough we will
be helping small businesses that's where
it's complicated because a lot of small
you know that's the engine of the of the
country we will be helping small
businesses
two members of Congress that have tested
positive for rotavirus these will be
votes that you need to pass this one
trillion dollar stimulus package from
the economy do you expect this to slow
down with delivery of checks for
American families and are you
considering any more consecutive action
there could be we're looking at a couple
of things that I could do hopefully we
won't need it but we can do was there's
a lot of executive power if we don't
have to use it that would be a good
thing not a bad thing yeah please Thank
You mr. president
one for you and potentially as well one
Fraser dr. Burgess dr. Adams right now
the economy is essentially ground to a
halt thanks for telling us stories of
clothes travel has slowed down
go ahead what's the rush deflation we
know that everybody in the room knows it
the question is how long should those
who are either not working right now for
business owners who have to make
critical decisions how long should they
expect the state of affairs as it stands
at this moment to play out and for for
the doctors behind you'll be able to
tell you that very I think in the near
future we'll see where we're going
you're gonna see numbers you've seen the
graphs you're gonna see numbers and
we'll be able to let you know I will say
that the American public has been
incredible for the most part not in all
cases but for the most part so you'll be
able to see what's happening over the
nest as we say we had a 15 day period
you'll be able to tell a lot in a week
or so not everything but will be able to
see over a period of time and for all
the parents that are home right now this
is a question for dr. burns and dr.
Adams who are caring for their children
and are curious as to when my kids be
able to go back to school what do you
think it's a realistic timeline well I
think you know most of all of those
decisions are made at the state and
local government level and each state
and local government has handled it
differently that's why we put out from
the president federal federal
presidential guidance to every single
person about what we think is important
for the next two weeks and as we look at
that data
we'll be able to see if it's having an
impact I think you've all seen the
modeling studies those were driven by
the modeling studies showing that you
add these things together they have a
bigger impact than separately and so
those are part of the decision-making we
had a whole group of modelers in
yesterday they're compositing all the
data together to look at this carefully
because everyone has those same
questions of what the impact will be and
what pieces could essentially be removed
and you still have the same level of
impact in decreasing the spread of the
virus the absolute key to this though is
every single American looking at the
president guidelines and taking it
seriously the acts of selflessness that
I am seeing are so impressive across the
board but if even 10 or 15 percent of
the population decides that what they're
doing today is more important than the
health and welfare of the rest of the
Americans they can spread the virus in a
very strong way because you know the
level of contagion if chloroquine or
hydroxychloroquine works or any of the
other things that they're looking at
that are not quite as far out but if
they work your numbers are going to come
down very rapidly so we'll see what
happens but there's a real chance in
mass demonstration and just yesterday
president from brazil said and we should
not be surprised if we see him in the
next few days in a crowded subway in Sao
Paulo or in a bus in Rio because he is
the president it should view the people
what do you think about that what's your
message well he's a friend of mine
number one and number two we had dinner
the other night and everybody said he
was positive and he wasn't positive he
tested negative so that was I I was
quite happy when I heard that but I have
no message for a mother than he's doing
a good job in Brazil a good job in
Brazil he's very popular I can't tell
you about that I don't know about that I
have not heard that he's doing a very
good job Brazil was very troubled before
he got there and he's the people loved
him and popular I think he's done a very
good job
there are Americans who were traveling
abroad or essentially stuck unable to
come home we spoke to a green beret ten
women who Americans but we spoke to ten
American women who were in Morocco for
instance all the flights have been
cancelled their hotel is shutting down
they literally have no place to stay and
no way to get home they are asking you
they're asking the administration the US
government for help what can be done we
know about it we have groups we have a
group of young people in in Peru and
we're working on taking care of that
with the military yeah we're looking to
take nonot evacuation what we're trying
to get them out and you know they got
caught they were late with their flights
we gave them a period of time they
didn't make it but we're looking to get
them out with military probably through
the military we have a group of young
young people I think young men or young
people could be women also with them
from Alabama the great state of Alabama
and they're in Peru and we're working on
that right now trying to get them out
it's a large group it's about 300 well
we're gonna work it out Jeff - president
- sort of foreign policy related
questions and your talk with the g7
leaders earlier this week did you
discuss together ending or postponing
the Olympics yeah we did discuss it as
you know Prime Minister Abbey was on the
call and that's a big decision for him
and we don't know what his decision is
but we'd live with his decision it's a
tough situation they've done an
incredible job
Japan has done an incredible job when
building the venues getting them built
you know you've seen so many Olympic
venues that have been a disaster over
the years where they cost five times
more than they were supposed to they
weren't ready in time Japan has been
just the opposite they built it
beautifully they built it for what it
was supposed to be built for but then he
got hit with the same thing that the
rest of the world got hit with
unexpectedly he has he has told us that
he has not made a decision as to what to
do so on foreign policy have you spoken
to don't we
Saudi Arabia or Russia and encourage
them to stop this glut of oil that is
affecting the market well the one thing
I will tell you is that from the
standpoint you always get a little bit
torn because you know until we became
the leading producer I was always for
the person driving the car and filling
up the tank of gas and you'd have
gasoline and the prices were if they
were too high I would always raise hell
with OPEC and I was always somebody that
liked saying I never thought I'd see 22
and 24 and 28 dollars a barrel but
that's what we have and in one way our
consumer is very much helped it's like
it's like a massive tax increase that's
bigger than any tax increase decreased
that you could give you know we can give
all these big tax cuts but they're
paying so little for gasoline but on the
other hand it hurts a great industry and
a very powerful industry so I spoke with
numerous people that have a lot to do
with it and we have a lot of power over
the situation and we're trying to find
some kind of a medium ground you know
it's it's very devastating to Russia
because when you look I mean the whole
economy is based on that and they have
we have the lowest oil prices in decades
so it's very devastating to Russia I
would say it's very bad for Saudi Arabia
but they were in a fight they were in a
fight on price they were to fight on
output and at the at the appropriate
time I'll get involved you hopeful the
Carnival cruise ships be used for well
Mickey called up and he said if you need
them and we haven't said yes I'll call
Governor Cuomo I'll I'll call Gavin from
gavin newsom governor from california
i'll call a few of the other governors
they're going to bring it up today
because we're meeting through phone
through telephone telephonically as they
say in a little while at FEMA I'm going
over FEMA from here
well you could increase places to stay
let's say places to stay if it works I
mean you know I don't know maybe people
won't wanna but he made the offer it was
a very generous offer and he said that
he has some ships that would be ideally
suited for what we're doing and
certainly they have a lot of rooms
they're big and they have a lot of rooms
so we appreciate it from Carnival about
not needing it right now if you're not
showing any symptoms but a lot of
needing the test or only getting tested
if you're showing symptoms but a lot of
this well you should only good we should
I didn't have any symptoms that I got a
test but I got a test because you people
were driving everybody crazy so that's
the only reason I had no symptoms but I
had a test and my doctor told me don't
get it you don't need it everybody said
you don't need it but I had to do it
because the press was going crazy and
then after I got it they said you
shouldn't have gotten it you had no
symptoms you know the whole thing so in
other words if you get it it was no good
but that's I'm a unique case
unfortunately but no people that don't
show symptoms and people that have
doctors that say they shouldn't get it I
would rely on that yeah
racist because it's food that originates
in China or it has no I don't think it's
racist I don't think it's racist at all
on that note major left-wing news media
even in this room have teamed up with
Chinese Communist Party narratives and
they're claiming you are racist for
making these claims about Chinese parts
it's an alarming that major media
players just to oppose you are
consistently siding with foreign state
propaganda Islamic radicals and Latin
gangs and cartels and they work right
here at the White House with direct
access to you and your team it amazes me
when I read the things that I read it
amazes me when I read The Wall Street
Journal which is always so negative it
amazes me when I read the New York Times
is not even I don't I barely read it you
know we don't distribute it in the White
House anymore in the same thing with the
Washington Post because you see I know
the truth and people out there in the
world they really don't know that they
don't know what it is they use different
slogans and different concepts for me
almost every week trying to catch
something last week it was all chaos you
see me there's no K I said no chaos I'm
the one telling everybody to be calm
there's no chaos at the White House we
have unbelievable professionals it's
really I mean I think I came up with the
term I hope I came up with the term but
it is fake news it's more than fakeness
it's corruptness they write stories
without calling anybody they write a
story today I had a couple of stories
where they never call me ever that I
know of at least nobody tells me they'll
write a story about me without even
asking my opinion on something it's
totally fake I've never seen I mean
there is a story in the Wall Street
Journal today about you know about how
we've done we've done a phenomenal job
on this the governors rivers even gavin
newsom who you know I'm usually fighting
with over the fires and I think you
should do a different kind of a job at
the in the forests and lots of things
we've we argue a lot but Gavin Newsom
has been very very generous generous
Andrew Cuomo has been really very
generous I mean they're saying we're
doing a great job and everybody's saying
but then you read this phony story
in the Wall Street Journal or with the
Washington Post is going wild lately I
don't know what happened to them I guess
something happened like we don't call
them back or whatever but the Washington
Post these are very dishonest media
sources they're very dishonest and you
know what someday hopefully in five
years I won't be here and that'll be
fine I will have done I think a great
job because I don't think anyone's done
as much in three and a half years as
I've done I don't think and the
administration this administration has
done a great job but the press is very
dishonest well I think they do I mean I
mean they are siding with they are
siding with China they are doing things
that they shouldn't be doing deciding
with many others China is the least of
it so why why they're doing this you'll
have to ask them but if we had an honest
media in this country our country would
be an even greater place so ladies and
gentlemen thank you very much we are
very excited about we are very excited
about in specifically what we talked
about with the chloroquine I think the I
think it could be something really
incredible it could totally depress the
times that we had mentioned wait excuse
me excuse me it could totally depress
that we're talking about if it works
there are a lot of reasons that I have
to believe again dr. Hahn is the expert
but a lot of reasons that I would have
to think that it could have a very
positive effect or a positive effect
maybe not very but maybe maybe positive
I think it's to me very very exciting
and the beauty is I think I can say this
Dave the beauty is that these drugs have
been out there so they're really danger
part of the drugs especially chloroquine
it's been out there for years so we know
it's something that can be taken safely
so it's very important
go ahead well the president has asked us
to expedite this and what I want to
assure you because of the questions that
were asked we want to make sure that
this is done well and right for the
American people the president is right
with an off-the-shelf drug we do have a
lot of information about the side
effects of the drug so that really helps
in terms of expediting but but I want to
show you that we're working as quickly
as we can I don't want to speculate
about a timeline at this point with
respect to vaccines that's in phase one
trial as I mentioned we're expecting
that to proceed moving forward and we're
working with a number of different other
companies about vaccine development is
it possible phase 2 and phase 3 can be
fast-tracked that we might see a vaccine
before that year you said it could
potentially be this is a terrific
question and we are really trying hard
at FDA to partner with great industry
great academic partners to do exactly
that
no promises can be made but one thing
that we're doing is really working hard
to fast-track as much as possibe will be
meeting hopefully not for very long I
mean it would like to see this get
cleared up and we think we've to me this
was a very important conference because
I really think there's great potential
here and a lot of people are going to be
trying it soon like literally very soon
literally in a matter of days if not
sooner in some cases it's already being
experimented with and there's been some
very good results we'll see what happens
but if if we can be even partially right
maybe we'll be fully right but even
partially right on it
this whole subject becomes a much more
pleasant subject so thank you all and
we'll we're going over to FEMA now so I
don't know who's going but we're going
to FEMA we're going to be discussing
with the governors and lots of other
you know what I think that's enough